Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness is an upcoming American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Doctor Strange. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is intended to be the sequel to Doctor Strange (2016) and the 28th film of the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film is directed by Sam Raimi, written by Michael Waldron, and stars Benedict Cumberbatch as Stephen Strange, alongside Elizabeth Olsen, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Benedict Wong, Xochitl Gomez, Michael Stuhlbarg, and Rachel McAdams. In the film, Strange and his allies travel into the multiverse to face a mysterious new adversary. 
Doctor Strange director and co-writer Scott Derrickson had plans for a sequel by October 2016. He signed to return as director in December 2018, when Cumberbatch was confirmed to return. The film's title was announced in July 2019 along with Olsen's involvement, while Jade Halley Bartlett was hired to write the film that October. Derrickson stepped down as director in January 2020, citing creative differences, with Waldron and Raimi joining the next month and starting over. Filming began in November 2020 in London but was put on hold in January 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Production resumed by March 2021 and concluded in mid-April in Somerset. Shooting also occurred in Surrey and Los Angeles.

Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness is scheduled to be released in the United States on May 6, 2022, as part of Phase Four of the MCU. Doctor Strange (2016) co-writer C. Robert Cargill stated in April 2016 that Marvel Studios felt some initial ideas for the film from him and director Scott Derrickson highlighted too much of the "weird stuff" associated with the comic book character Doctor Strange to feature in an origin story, but told the duo to hold onto them for potential future films.[30] Derrickson revealed in October that he had plans for a sequel, expressing his love for the character and the visual possibilities that come with him. Derrickson said the first film was "the tip of an iceberg. There's so much progress that can be made." He wanted to follow the example of The Dark Knight (2008) and introduce a villain in the sequel that would allow them to "go deep [and have] a more visceral experience". Star Benedict Cumberbatch had signed on for at least one more Doctor Strange film.[31] Derrickson expressed interest in featuring the villain Nightmare,[32] and further exploring the characters Jonathan Pangborn and Hamir after their small roles in the first film. He also explained that he was "kept in the loop" on how the Avengers films were using the character due to his close relationships with Joe Russo—the co-director of Avengers: Infinity War (2018) and Avengers: Endgame (2019)—and Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige.[33] Doctor Strange co-writer Jon Spaihts expressed interest in seeing the character Clea appear in a sequel.
In April 2017, Derrickson was reported to be returning for a sequel, beginning work after fulfilling his commitments to the television series Locke & Key.[36] By December 2018, Derrickson had quietly finalized a deal to direct the sequel, with Cumberbatch, Benedict Wong, and Rachel McAdams reprising their respective roles of Dr. Stephen Strange, Wong, and Christine Palmer. Marvel was beginning to search for a writer,[4][37] with The Hollywood Reporter stating that the script would be written throughout 2019 for a planned filming start in early 2020 and a potential release in May 2021.[4] Feige and Derrickson officially announced the sequel at San Diego Comic-Con in July 2019, revealing the title to be Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness and confirming a release date of May 7, 2021.[10] Derrickson said he wanted the sequel to be the first scary Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU) film and explore more of the gothic and horror elements from the comic books than the first installment did.[10][38] Feige revealed that the Disney+ series WandaVision (2021) would directly set up the film, with that series' star Elizabeth Olsen reprising her role of Wanda Maximoff / Scarlet Witch in the film.[10][39] Multiverse of Madness also continues from the film Spider-Man: No Way Home (2021), in which Cumberbatch stars as Strange,[1] as well as the first season of the series Loki (2021) which sets up the events of the film in its season finale, "For All Time. Always."[2] After that episode was released, Tom Hiddleston was reported to be reprising his role as Loki in Multiverse of Madness.
Pre-production

Jade Halley Bartlett, an "up-and-coming screenwriter", was hired to write the sequel's screenplay in October 2019.[41] In December, Feige described the multiverse as "the next step in the evolution of the MCU", and said this film would "crack it wide open" in a way that would have repercussions for the Disney+ series and the next films in Marvel Studios' Phase Four slate.[42] Later in the month, he clarified that the sequel would not be a horror film, as some reports had described it following the Comic-Con announcement, but it would be a "big MCU film with scary sequences". Feige compared these sequences to the films Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981), Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom (1984), Gremlins (1984), and Poltergeist (1982), and said Derrickson was good at being "legitimately scary" due to his background making horror films. Feige also revealed that the film would introduce several surprising new characters to the MCU, including one that Marvel Studios had been looking for a way to use in an MCU film for some time.[43]

In January 2020, Marvel Studios and Derrickson announced that he would no longer direct the film due to creative differences. In separate statements, they both said they were thankful for their collaboration so far and Derrickson would remain an executive producer on the film. This was not expected to delay filming, which was set for May 2020.[44][45] Cargill explained that he and Derrickson conceived a story that went in a different direction from what Marvel wanted,[46] and the pair had not yet written a draft of the screenplay so the final film would not be derivative of their work.[47] Derrickson said leaving the film was a difficult decision, but he did not want to compromise on a film that was different from what he wanted to make. His choice to leave was made easier by the fact that he was able to immediately begin work on The Black Phone (2022), another film he wanted to make.[46] Feige echoed Cargill's explanation when he stated that though Marvel Studios and Derrickson did not agree on the creative direction of the film, their differences were not because Derrickson's take would have been a "no-holds-barred weird, gnarly, scary movie" similar to A24's films The Witch (2015) or Hereditary (2018) as had been reported. Feige said the studio loved that idea, and their intention with the film was for Strange to serve as a guide into a "much creepier side" of the MCU even after Derrickson's departure.[48] Cumberbatch was not consulted regarding the director change and said he was sad to hear about it, but he respected the decision and how it was handled.[49]

Sam Raimi entered negotiations to take over as director by early February. At that time, Chiwetel Ejiofor was expected to reprise his role as Karl Mordo, McAdams was no longer expected to appear,[19] and Loki head writer Michael Waldron was hired to rewrite the film's script.[50][51] Raimi signed on to the film a few weeks later.[5] Raimi was reluctant to direct another Marvel superhero film after the negative critical reaction to Spider-Man 3 (2007), but accepted the job for the challenge and because he is a fan of the Doctor Strange character and Derrickson's work on the first film.[52] Waldron opted to conceive the script with Raimi from scratch instead of using the horror-influenced foundation that Derrickson had developed with Bartlett.[5][53][54] Marvel Studios production and development manager Richie Palmer said Waldron's work on Loki, in which he explored the multiverse and introduced the concept of variant characters, allowed Marvel Studios to "jump into telling a good story" without having to re-explain those ideas for the audience. Palmer also said Waldron was able to bring "a lot of heart to [the] sci-fi concepts" and carried over that approach from Loki to the film.[55] Waldron worked closely with Olsen and WandaVision head writer Jac Schaeffer to continue Maximoff's story in the film and ensure it was a satisfying continuation of the series.[45] After a planned appearance by Cumberbatch in WandaVision was removed late in the development of the series, rewrites to the Multiverse of Madness script were required which Feige described as a "wonderful combination of very dedicated coordination, and chaos".[56] These changes include how Strange and Maximoff meet in the film.[13] The story of Multiverse of Madness is still set up by WandaVision, but the film was developed to also work for viewers who did not watch the series.[57] The creative team also saw early production work for the animated series What If...? to learn how Strange was portrayed in that series.[58]

In late March, pre-production work was taking place remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic,[59] with filming still on track to begin in May 2020.[45] At the start of April, Disney shifted much of their Phase Four slate of films due to the pandemic, moving Doctor Strange in the Multiverse of Madness's release date to November 5, 2021.[60] It was shifted again to March 25, 2022, after Sony Pictures rescheduled Spider-Man: No Way Home to the November 2021 date.[61] Ejiofor confirmed his involvement in late June 2020, by which time production on the film had been delayed by the pandemic.[16] In early October, Cumberbatch confirmed that pre-production work had continued and revealed that filming would start in London, England by the end of the month or in early November.[62][63] Later in October, Xochitl Gomez joined the cast.[17] Although a national lockdown in England was announced from November 5 to December 2 due to increased COVID-19 cases, film shoots were not impacted.[64] The pandemic delays gave Waldron and Raimi more time to develop the film as their own and push it in a "slightly scarier direction", with Waldron feeling that Raimi had a strong track record making scarier films.
daa


enthdaa


nokkunne
